content/about/index.md, before:

---
title: "About"
date: 2020-02-22T18:11:37+11:00
---

Hi! My name is Shiveen 👋🏽 🤓 I like to travel, cook, read and develop software for humans.

I like building software and products for companies that are making a difference. I am currently a Senior Engineer @ [Atlassian](https://www.atlassian.com/) working on the Jira family of products. I have previously worked in finance @ [JPMorgan](https://www.jpmorgan.com/) and lead the platform team for a large scale orders and payments system @ [Ordermentum](https://www.ordermentum.com/) and most recently as Tech Lead @ [Grow Super](https://www.growsuper.com/) which is focussed on making a super admin platform. 

Growing up, I've always been fascinated with how the world works, and the ability to write software as living allows me to explore all the creative possibilities I can think of to make someone's life better.

My current software development interest lies in Kotlin as a general purpose programming language to build scalable systems along with providing performance glue using Rust and building responsive front end systems using VueJs and Node.

In my spare time I love catching up on all things' astronomy 🌌 🚀, history and investment podcasts, and am an avid reader with my favourite genres being hard science fiction, psychology and autobiographical novels. 

Outside of my programming pursuits, my long term hobbies include camping 🏕, hiking 🥾, boxing 🥊 and landscape photography ⛰ 📷.


## Links

### [Resume](/resume)

### [Setup and Tools](/uses)

Commit message:

Mostly personal info oupdates
Cleaned up the about me a little bit and added a site specific email

content/about/index.md, after:

---
title: "About"
date: 2020-02-22T18:11:37+11:00
---

Hi! My name is Shiveen 👋🏽 🤓 

I like building software and products for companies that are making a difference. I am currently a Senior Engineer @ [Atlassian](https://www.atlassian.com/) working on the Jira family of products. I have previously worked in finance @ [JPMorgan](https://www.jpmorgan.com/) and lead the platform team for a large scale orders and payments system @ [Ordermentum](https://www.ordermentum.com/) and most recently as Tech Lead @ [Grow Super](https://www.growsuper.com/) which is focussed on making a super admin platform. 

Growing up, I've always been fascinated with how the world works, and the ability to write software allows me to creatively explore the world and leave it a little bit better.

In my spare time I love catching up on all things' astronomy, history and investment podcasts, and am an avid reader with my favourite genres being hard science fiction, psychology and modern history.

Outside of my programming and reading pursuits, my long term hobbies include hiking/camping, photography and boxing.

## Other Links

### [Resume](/resume)

### [Setup and Tools](/uses)
