content/uses/index.md, before:

---
title: "Uses"
date: 2020-01-12T21:24:01+11:00
---

## My Development Setup 🖥

Sometimes I get asked for my development setup and the apps I use for my everyday work. This is a living page meant to contain it all. 

### Hardware ‍👨‍💻

![](/screenfetch_screenshot.png#center)

- [Macbook Pro 13"](https://www.apple.com/au/macbook-pro-13/): I have used windows, linux and Mac both professionally and as a hobbyist. Although I was on Ubuntu for a couple of years, nothing beats the general ease of use and dev friendliness of a Mac

- [Dell Ultrasharp 32" 4K Monitor](https://www.amazon.com.au/32-Inch-Screen-LED-Lit-Monitor-U3219Q/dp/B07HDBD9CM): I use a 4K monitor at home to do all my dev and creative (photo editing) work

- [Apple Magic Trackpad 2](https://www.apple.com/au/shop/product/MJ2R2ZA/A/magic-trackpad-2-silver) and [Logitech MX Master 3](https://www.logitech.com/en-au/product/mx-master-3) (I alternate 🤓)

- [Keychron K2 Mechanical Keyboard with Brown Switches](https://www.keychron.com/products/keychron-k2-mechanical-keyboard?variant=31063869653081)

- [Satechi Desk Mat](https://satechi.net/products/satechi-desk-mat-mate) 

- [Airpods](https://www.apple.com/au/airpods/)

- [iPhone 11 Pro](https://www.apple.com/au/iphone-11-pro/)

## Software 👓

My dotfiles can be found [here](https://github.com/shavz/dotfiles)

### Languages ✍️

- [Kotlin](https://kotlinlang.org/) with SpringBoot for quick backend projects 🚀
- [VueJS](https://vuejs.org/) for frontend 🤩
- [Rust](https://www.rust-lang.org/) for quick tools and learning some new techniques 🔨
- [Swift](https://developer.apple.com/swift/) for building iOS Apps 📱

### Development Tools

- [iTerm2](https://iterm2.com) I use this as my main terminal with [oh my zsh](https://github.com/ohmyzsh/ohmyzsh) installed
- [IntelliJ IDEA Ultimate](https://www.jetbrains.com/idea/) My IDE of choice for both back and front end work
- [Sublime Text](https://www.sublimetext.com/) As a general text editor
- [Docker](https://www.docker.com) For pakaging all my apps before deployment
- [Postico](https://eggerapps.at/postico/) As my database browser of choice
- [Github](https://github.com) My code repository of choice
- [Digital Ocean](https://www.digitalocean.com) I find these guys good value for money compared to AWS for hobby projects
- [Netlify](https://www.netlify.com) Use it to host this blog, they are a delight to work with
- [Chrome](https://www.google.com/chrome/) As my webdev and everyday browser. I keep firefox dev edition and Safari around for testing
- [Postman](https://www.getpostman.com) For api testing
- [Fork](https://git-fork.com/) for days when when cli git just won't cut it

### Apps 

- [1Password](https://1password.com) for managing my logins and passwords
- [Bear](https://bear.app) for note taking
- [Rescue Time](https://www.rescuetime.com/) for detailed graphs on how I manage my time so I can be more productive when I need to be. Use my [referral link](https://www.rescuetime.com/ref/2254444) if you'd like to sign up too.
- [ON1 Photo RAW](https://www.on1.com) as my lightroom replacement
- [Pixelmator Pro](https://www.pixelmator.com/pro/) for creating logos and vector graphic editing
- [Figma](https://www.figma.com) Their free account is perfect for wireframe mockups
- [Rocket](https://matthewpalmer.net/rocket/) for amazing emoji support everywhere
- [Slack](https://slack.com/intl/en-au/) for work and dev community chats
- [Things 3](https://culturedcode.com/things/) as my main GTD app. Also hands down the best app I own across all my devices
- [Fantastical](https://flexibits.com/fantastical) My mac calendar replacement
- [Trello](https://trello.com/en) for managing my personal and professional development vision boards
- [NordVPN](https://nordvpn.com) for when you need VPN at an airport or a cafe
- [Magnet](https://apps.apple.com/au/app/magnet/id441258766?mt=12) for easy window tiling
- [Lungo](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/lungo/id1263070803?mt=12) good replacement for caffeine, to keep my mac awake
- [Spotify](https://www.spotify.com/au/) for music
- [Kap]() My go to app for creating screen recordings

Commit message:

Updated About Me, Resume and Uses page
Updated a bunch of pages to include new information and also tidyd up the uses page a bit.

content/uses/index.md, after:

---
title: "Uses"
date: 2020-01-12T21:24:01+11:00
---

## My Development Setup 🖥

Sometimes I get asked for my development setup and the apps I use for my everyday work. 

### Hardware ‍👨‍💻

{{< image src="/screenfetch_screenshot.png" alt="Mac OS specs Image" position="center" style="border-radius: 8px;" >}}

- [Macbook Pro 13"](https://www.apple.com/au/macbook-pro-13/): I have used windows, linux and Mac both professionally and as a hobbyist. Although I was on Ubuntu for a couple of years, nothing beats the general ease of use and dev friendliness of a Mac

- [Dell Ultrasharp 32" 4K Monitor](https://www.amazon.com.au/32-Inch-Screen-LED-Lit-Monitor-U3219Q/dp/B07HDBD9CM): I use a 4K monitor at home to do all my dev and creative (photo editing) work

- [Apple Magic Trackpad 2](https://www.apple.com/au/shop/product/MJ2R2ZA/A/magic-trackpad-2-silver) and [Logitech MX Master 3](https://www.logitech.com/en-au/product/mx-master-3) (I alternate 🤓)

- [Keychron K2 Mechanical Keyboard with Brown Switches](https://www.keychron.com/products/keychron-k2-mechanical-keyboard?variant=31063869653081)

- [IKEA SIGFINN Monitor Riser](https://www.ikea.com/au/en/p/sigfinn-monitor-stand-fixed-height-bamboo-veneer-90388394/)
  
- [Satechi Desk Mat](https://satechi.net/products/satechi-desk-mat-mate) 

- [Airpods](https://www.apple.com/au/airpods/)

- [iPhone 11 Pro](https://www.apple.com/au/iphone-11-pro/)

- [Bose QC 35 II](https://www.bose.com.au/en_au/products/headphones/over_ear_headphones/quietcomfort-35-wireless-ii.html)

## Software 👓

My dotfiles can be found [here](https://github.com/shavz/dotfiles)

### Languages ✍️

- [Kotlin](https://kotlinlang.org/) is my primary development language 🚀
- [VueJS](https://vuejs.org/) for frontend 🤩
- [Rust](https://www.rust-lang.org/) for quick tools and learning some new techniques 🔨
- [Swift](https://developer.apple.com/swift/) for building iOS Apps 📱

### Development Tools

- [iTerm2](https://iterm2.com) as my main terminal with [oh my zsh](https://github.com/ohmyzsh/ohmyzsh) installed
- [IntelliJ IDEA Ultimate](https://www.jetbrains.com/idea/) IDE of choice for both back and front end work. I used to be a big fan of the Darcule theme but have since migrated to [Nord](https://www.nordtheme.com/) as the soft pallettes are a lot easier on my eyes.
- [VS Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/) as my general text editor
- [Docker](https://www.docker.com) for pakaging all my apps before deployment
- [Postico](https://eggerapps.at/postico/) as my database browser of choice
- [Digital Ocean](https://www.digitalocean.com) find these guys good value for money compared to AWS for hobby projects. Grab a $5 droplet and off you go.
- [Netlify](https://www.netlify.com) for hosting static pages (like this blog)
- [Chrome](https://www.google.com/chrome/) everyday driver for browsing and web dev
- [Postman](https://www.getpostman.com) for api testing. However, I'm currently also trialling out [Paw](https://paw.cloud/)
- [Fork](https://git-fork.com/) for days when when cli git just won't cut it

### Apps 

- [1Password](https://1password.com) for managing my logins and passwords
- [Bear](https://bear.app) for note taking
- [Alfred 4](https://www.alfredapp.com/) probably the most used app in my toolkit, saves me so much time
- [Rescue Time](https://www.rescuetime.com/) for detailed graphs on how I manage my time so I can be more productive when I need to be. Use my [referral link](https://www.rescuetime.com/ref/2254444) if you'd like to sign up too.
- [Day 1](https://dayoneapp.com/) for daily journalling
- [ON1 Photo RAW](https://www.on1.com) as my lightroom replacement
- [Pixelmator Pro](https://www.pixelmator.com/pro/) for creating logos and vector graphic editing
- [Figma](https://www.figma.com) for mockups and more elaborate UI designs
- [Rocket](https://matthewpalmer.net/rocket/) for amazing emoji support everywhere
- [Slack](https://slack.com/intl/en-au/) for work and dev community chats
- [Things 3](https://culturedcode.com/things/) as my main GTD app. Also hands down the best app I own across all my devices
- [Fantastical](https://flexibits.com/fantastical) as my mac calendar replacement
- [Trello](https://trello.com/en) for basically managing everything in my life
- ~~[NordVPN](https://nordvpn.com) for when you need VPN at an airport or a cafe~~ not a big fan of their shady practices, currently running VPN free
- [Magnet](https://apps.apple.com/au/app/magnet/id441258766?mt=12) for easy window tiling
- [Lungo](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/lungo/id1263070803?mt=12) good replacement for caffeine, to keep my mac awake when coding so I don't have to waste mental energy in logging back in
- [Apple Music](https://www.apple.com/au/apple-music/) for music. I migrated away from Spotify after 6 years of using them since I find the apple music interface better. However, they're both great choices in my opinion.
